README.md, before:

# watertap-ui

This repository is for work on the user interface(s) (UI) for the WaterTAP library.

## Getting started (developer)

### Prerequisites

The following steps assume that:

1. `conda` is already installed and configured
2. This repository (i.e. the WaterTAP UI repository, https://github.com/watertap-org/watertap-ui) has been cloned locally and the working directory is set to the root of the repository

### 1. Creating the Conda environment

Run the following command to create and activate a new Conda environment named `watertap-ui-env`:

```sh
conda env create --file environment.yml && conda activate watertap-ui-env
```

This will install the correct runtime versions of both the backend (Python) and frontend (JavaScript/NodeJS/Electron) portions of the UI, as well as the backend (Python) dependencies.

### 2. Install the JavaScript dependencies

Run the following command to install the JavaScript dependencies:

```sh
npm --prefix electron clean-install
```

### 3. Install the IDAES solver dependencies

```sh
idaes get-extensions --verbose
```

### 4. (Optional) Install the developer version of WaterTAP

By default, Step 1 above will install the `watertap` Python package from the current `main` branch of the watertap-org/watertap repository.

To use the WaterTAP UI with the development version of WaterTAP, run the following steps:

#### 4.0. (Optional) Clone the `watertap-org/watertap` repository locally

If you already have a local clone of the WaterTAP repository, you can skip this step.

Otherwise, run the following command to create a local clone of the WaterTAP repository in a directory of your choice, e.g. `/path/to/my/watertap`:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/watertap-org/ /path/to/my/watertap
```

#### 4.1. Ensure that the `watertap-ui-env` Conda environment is active

```sh
conda activate watertap-ui-env
```

#### 4.2. Uninstall the currently installed version of WaterTAP

```sh
pip uninstall --yes watertap
```

#### 4.3. Install the development version of WaterTAP

The following assumes that the `watertap-org/watertap` repository has been cloned to a directory named `/path/to/my/watertap`.

```sh
bash -c "cd /path/to/my/watertap && pip install -r requirements-dev.txt"
```

## Running the UI

#### Ensure that the `watertap-ui-env` Conda environment is active

```console
conda activate watertap-ui-env
```

### Run UI in browser

```console
cd <watertap-ui-path>/electron
npm run app-start
```

### Run UI with electron

```console
cd <watertap-ui-path>/electron
npm run electron-start
```

# Running developer tests

To run the Python tests, make sure you have the appropriate version of watertap in your conda env.  Then from the repository root directory run:

`pytest backend/tests`


Last merged PR: : graph_settings-issue53

Commit message:

Electron build for production app (#63)
* added pyinstaller and some hooks for installation; updated settings path to work with backend executable file; Flowsheet.Find() function still has issues when running backend from executable

* updated extra hooks to ensure all watertap packages are imported

* updated main.spec to include data files and import ALL watertap packages

* got electron build working; need to figure out how to dynamically include diagrams in production build

* updated header navigation to work in production

* small change to index.html to help load images in production

* removed experimental code

* added windows production build capability

* added functionality to dynamically include all png data files during backend build

* added error handling for when flowsheet build fails (ie when idaes extensions arent available); updated readme

* added install extensions functionality on backend, doesn't work on my ma with idaes 2.0.0

* added logging to file; added installation spawn for main.js

* idaes imports causing issues on pyinstaller build

* created new python (separate) script for installing idaes extensions

* exclude some modules from idaes-extensions spec file

* fixed typo in spec file; changed windows build from portable -> zip

* moved datas from spec to custom hook

* removed idaes extension files from main.spec datas

* added watertap-logo.ico

* migrated frontend to its own subdirectory -> electron/ui

* changed title of index.html

* updated component tests

* updated workflow

* updated workflow

* updated rounding to handle negative rounding

* updated some package.json stuff

* fixed error when comparison configs have different categories

* some cleanup

* some cleanup

* replaced demo image with text as placeholder for diagram

* simplified negative rounding

* updated graph component test

* updated component test to reflect graph diagram update

README.md, after:

# watertap-ui

This repository is for work on the user interface(s) (UI) for the WaterTAP library.

## Getting started (developer)

### Prerequisites

The following steps assume that:

1. `conda` is already installed and configured
2. This repository (i.e. the WaterTAP UI repository, https://github.com/watertap-org/watertap-ui) has been cloned locally and the working directory is set to the root of the repository

## Installation

### 1. Creating the Conda environment

Run the following command to create and activate a new Conda environment named `watertap-ui-env`:

```sh
conda env create --file environment.yml && conda activate watertap-ui-env
```

This will install the correct runtime versions of both the backend (Python) and frontend (JavaScript/NodeJS/Electron) portions of the UI, as well as the backend (Python) dependencies.

### 2. Install the JavaScript dependencies

Run the following commands to install the JavaScript dependencies:

```sh
npm --prefix electron clean-install
```

```sh
npm --prefix electron/ui clean-install
```

### 3. Install the IDAES solver dependencies

```sh
idaes get-extensions --verbose
```

### 4. (Optional) Install the developer version of WaterTAP

By default, Step 1 above will install the `watertap` Python package from the current `main` branch of the watertap-org/watertap repository.

To use the WaterTAP UI with the development version of WaterTAP, run the following steps:

#### 4.0. (Optional) Clone the `watertap-org/watertap` repository locally

If you already have a local clone of the WaterTAP repository, you can skip this step.

Otherwise, run the following command to create a local clone of the WaterTAP repository in a directory of your choice, e.g. `/path/to/my/watertap`:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/watertap-org/ /path/to/my/watertap
```

#### 4.1. Ensure that the `watertap-ui-env` Conda environment is active

```sh
conda activate watertap-ui-env
```

#### 4.2. Uninstall the currently installed version of WaterTAP

```sh
pip uninstall --yes watertap
```

#### 4.3. Install the development version of WaterTAP

The following assumes that the `watertap-org/watertap` repository has been cloned to a directory named `/path/to/my/watertap`.

```sh
bash -c "cd /path/to/my/watertap && pip install -r requirements-dev.txt"
```

# Running the UI

### Ensure that the `watertap-ui-env` Conda environment is active and all dependencies are installed

```console
conda activate watertap-ui-env
```

### Run UI in browser

```console
cd <watertap-ui-path>/electron/ui
npm run app-start
```

### Run UI with electron (work in progress)

```console
cd <watertap-ui-path>/electron/ui
npm run electron-start
```

# Running developer tests

To run the Python tests, make sure you have the appropriate version of watertap in your conda env.  Then from the repository root directory run:

`pytest backend/tests`


Last merged PR: : graph_settings-issue53


# Building production Electron app (experimental)

### Windows (requires Windows OS):

```console
cd <watertap-ui-path>/electron
npm run dist:win
```

### MacOS - (requires Mac OS):

```console
cd <watertap-ui-path>/electron
npm run dist:mac
```
